No!
Don’t do it!
It is a sin!
Many religions have listed quite a few acts
as sinful, taboo, to be avoided at all costs.
If, for example, you take Hinduism, there
are some SIX sins.
You should never indulge in these six CARDINAL
sins.
If you take Buddhism, there are TEN.
If you consider Islam,..
I saw multiple sources.. one of them said
FIFTEEN.
And, Christianity talks about SEVEN deadly
sins.
There is a lot of commonality among these.
Let us pick these Seven Deadly Sins in Christianity..
And look at it from the point of view of a
student.
Let us give it a “counter-take”!
Namaste!
Four Hundred and Fifty One!
Paavangalai Kal..
Some religions dictate that if you stoop low
enough to perform these sinful acts, the immediate
punishment waiting for you is to be pelted
by stones!
But, no, that is not what we are going to
look at.
In Christianity, there are Seven Deadly Sins.
We are going to look at them one by one.
And, as we do that, we are going to take the
vantage point of a student, a learner.
And, ask ourselves..
From their viewpoint too, is it really a sin?
Or, is there a hidden layer there?
A new way to look at this old concept?
That is what we are going to see.
The first is Pride.
We are told that one should not indulge in
vanity.
Self-praise.
From one viewpoint, yes, it is wrong to do
that…
But, I want to dig deeper.
When we think about it a bit more, I am reminded
of the story of Bhasmasura.
So, what’s the Bhasmasura story?
Well, Lord Shiva, thrilled by the Asura’s
disciplined penance, blessed him with a boon.
Placing your hand on the head of anybody…
is all you need to burn them to ashes!
They would be destroyed!
Turned to ashes!
Bhasmasura will try it, .. it will seem to
work, and.. hubris will make him want to try
it on Lord Shiva himself!
Lord Shiva runs…!
To Lord Vishnu.
And he employs a shady trick to solve the
problem..
But, the point is, creating something that
threatens to destroy you.
That is not an easy thing to do!
That requires one amazing ability..
If you don’t have a critical amount of capability,
power, and creative ability, I don’t think
it is easy to be able to create something
that threatens to destroy its very Maker!
Man has been able to do it!
He learned about the power inside
the atom.
He kept fiddling with it.
For nearly forty years.
He saw everything that was inside it.
And then, he discovered that it has got limitless
energy.
And then, he changed it into a weapon..
And then, for a very long time he has been
threatened by that weapon.
The same thing happened in the world of programming.
They created a computer.
They kept adding the power and capability
of that thing.
And today, we have birthed a beast called
ChatGPT.
And nobody knows what is going to hit us tomorrow.
It is threatening..
you know whose jobs are going first?
Guess?
The computer programmer is losing their job.
Because, writing code is probably the easiest
thing that an AI program can do.
And, I think one has to be PROUD about this.
Justified pride.
As a learner, as a student, as a pursuer of
knowledge, you are allowed to be proud.
Because..
You have created something that threatens
your own existence!
Go ahead!
Be proud!
The second thing they warn us about is Greed.
I want it.
I need it.
And, it should be ONLY FOR ME!
I haven’t spoken about this to anybody else
till now.. but I am going to leak it out to
you..
When I was at college, there was this one
particular book..
Extra-special.
The concepts that would be appearing in the
exam would have been so beautifully described
in the book.
The book was unusually costly.
There were only two copies of the book..
One of them was with the professor, and the
other was in the general library.
Guess what I did?
Not only did I borrow the book from the general
library… which is not a crime to do after
all.. but, without stopping there, I read
it and while returning it, I displaced it..
I placed it somewhere else!
That greed..
That only I should have access to that book.
That I could borrow it any time I wanted to.
What a heinous crime!
Yes, Greed is a sin.
On the other hand, today, with electronic
books and the internet, and Google helping
us as an amazing indexing engine that goes
to every nook and corner of the internet,
sorry, you can’t hoard information.
Good information, bad information, all kinds
of gossip and rumour, truths, opinions, will
always be available to everybody.
So, a student is, I think, protected and vaccinated
from the evil influence of the Sin of Greed.
They are immune to it.
You cannot be Greedy.
If something is good, there will be six other
people having a copy of that good thing.
Don’t worry!
The third is Lust.
A.. a sexual desire, they would say..
But, if you peel some layers off and look
at it in depth, it is more of an innate urge
to make copies of yourself.
Reproducing urge.
They keep talking about a “gene”..
But, Richard Dawkins, a famous scientist and
popular author, talks about something that
can spread even faster than a gene!
And, don’t confuse it with a Vadivel meme,
please.
A meme is the germ of an idea.
If the idea possesses a sense of virality,
it will spread and make you forever famous.
There was this guy, Copernicus.
It’s so clear!
That.. to make the human being and Earth the
center of the Universe, the planets had to
do all kinds of loopy, messy circuits.
If you could just internalise that single
truth — that “You are not the center of
the universe” — if we could replace the
Earth with the Sun in the center, everything
clicks into place so beautifully!
That was the realisation Copernicus arrived
at… sixty years before Galileo invented
and made the telescope popular!
He had a meme!
He said “Heliocentric”..
And, he didn’t just write about it and keep
quiet.
He went talking.
He spoke at the Church.
He harangued the Pope.
He advised his students.
You need to have Lust.
You need to want your idea to be sown and
watered in the minds of every person you come
in contact with!
Go!
Be lustful!
Envy is .. another sin.
“Oh, .. it is so beautiful!
Oh .. this person is simply amazing!”
That admiration..
becomes envy when we start comparing.
“How beautiful..
I am not that pretty…”
“How fast..
I am not that speedy”..
When you start doing that, admiration becomes
envy.
And, envy is to be abhorred, everybody says.
On the other hand, if you channelise that
envy..
This person is envious of that other person..
How did you alone manage to get up there?
What was the path you followed?
Who helped you along the way?
How did you pull it off?
What did you focus on?
What did you sacrifice?
If I start understanding and analysing, in
an attempt to reach there myself, … That
sort of envy?
Is actually good.
You can be envious.
Nothing wrong!
Then comes Gluttony.
Gluttony is insatiable hunger.
A limitless, an uncontrollable, desire to
stuff.
With no rhyme or reason, with no hunger, .. you
continue to eat.
With no realisation or need, with no understanding
that this that I am eating now is going to
help me for that..
No sense of connectivity..
You continue gathering stuff…
Stuffing it into your mouth.
And, the elders warn us against this sin.
You know what ChatGPT is?
It is a model.
It is a natural-language responding engine
that has been trained on probably ten billion
unique points of data.
They could be truth-statements.
They could be opinions.
They could be conversations.
But, ChatGPT excelled in gluttony.
With no real dotted line connecting each item
to a future point where that would be useful,
… realising that we may never walk this
path again, whatever nuggets it saw on the
way, it told to itself “who knows when they
would be useful, let me grab!”
A student, today, if you have to defeat the
likes of ChatGPT, you need to indulge in Gluttony.
Some of the things you learn, you may not
be able to understand the reasoning, the rationale,
until later.
Some of the things you learn may seem unconnected,
but down the line, you may see the connections.
So, today, your task, is to indulge in Gluttony.
Collect information.
Collect experiences.
Sift them.
Analyse them.
Remix them.
Create your own.
Share them.
Combine.
Recombine.
So, indulging in Gluttony, .. for a student,
for a lifelong learner, .. can’t be seen
as a Sin!
Wrath!
Wrath is.. extreme anger.
Uncontrollable anger.
And, specifically, justified anger.
Bharathiyaar used to call it “Rowthiram”.
That anger comes from your inability to keep
calm and passive when you look around at all
the injustice happening around you!
You bubble and explode like a volcano!
The injustices around me, I can’t keep quiet.
I can’t stomach this..
That is Rowthiram.
For a student, Rowthiram is important.
Particularly, self-directed Rowthiram.
You need to be angry at yourself.
You need to be angry for all the submissions
you do to the distractions for your time..
How many distractions!
How many give-ins?
How many surrenders?
You should be angry!
Succeeding is not in your hands!
But, excelling?
Becoming the best is not in your hands.
But, giving your best is in your hands.
If you ended up not putting in your best,
.. you need Rowthiram to show you the right
path.
There used to be this place called Cheetthalai..
Famous for a poet who was born there.
A chaatthanaar.
Cheetthalai Chaatthanaar.
My dad used to spin me a yarn, but, unfortunately,
try as I might, I haven’t been able to find
references for its veracity on the internet
since then.
But, the story was interesting to listen to,
at that time.
Chaatthanaar would use his “writing awl”
on palm leaves.
And, if an error cropped up, a missing rhythm
or rhyme, or an asymmetric meter, .. he would
punish himself by poking his head with the
awl.
And, why was he named Cheetthalai?
Well, so often did he correct himself that
the skin in his head got septic!
Cheetthalai Chatthanaar.
Nice story.
I love it.
Even though it is not true!
Because, the student who knows to self-flagellate..
the student who stands in front of the mirror
and corrects themselves..
When the person in the mirror tells them — “You
didn’t do your best.
You didn’t put in your hundred percent..”
and you can acknowledge it, I think that is
a great quality for a lifelong learner.
The seventh is Sloth.
Lethargy.
Inactivity.
Reactionless…
It is wrong, we are advised, to sit around
doing nothing.
Again..
On the contrary, I am going to tell you that
Sloth is perhaps useful..
We have all grown up hearing the pointed messages
about the fabled early bird that gets the
worm..
The second bird?
Sorry.
No luck.
The first bird got it.
That is how we were grown up, by our parents.
But, do you know what is the real game today?
The real game is not up in the skies, but
in the corner of the room..
Where the old mouse is giving advice to the
young mice..
“Hello!
It is the second mouse that gets the cheese!
The first one is caught..
The trap can’t work any longer..
The cheese is still around.
It is the second mouse, hence, that gets the
cheese.”
Remember this famous book?
Thinking Fast and Slow?
We have encountered the concept of System
1 and System 2 thinking.
Slow down!
Allow the System 2 to take over and give you
better advice.
The author entreats us..
Daniel Kahneman.
“Nothing in life is as important as you
think it is, while you are thinking about
it.”
So, stop thinking about it!
Put it on HOLD!
Let us address it tomorrow!
You will get a better idea tomorrow!
You will be able to make better decisions
tomorrow.
Delay.
Slow down.
Be Slothful!
So…
I am not asking you to commit sins!
All I am saying is, those sins?
They didn’t sin!
You can use them redeemingly!
Look at them from a different viewpoint.
As a closing thought, I want to refer to this
amazing book — The Kite Runner.
By Khaled Hosseini.
A little boy speaks with his father.
And his father is advising him.
“You are going to the school.
And, the religious teacher, the Mullah, will
be advising you.
But, remember this one thing.
There is only one sin, and that is theft.
Every other sin is a variation of theft”.
The boy is flummoxed.
The dad elaborates:- “If you are going to
kill somebody, you are STEALING their life.
If you are going to have a relationship with
the wife of some other man, you are STEALING
that woman’s children’s right to a father.
If you are going to lie to somebody, you are
STEALING that listener’s right to the truth.
If you are going to cheat somebody, you are
STEALING that person’s right to fairness.
How beautiful, is it not?
There is only one sin, and that is Theft.
Don’t steal, he says!
Food for thought.
We will meet again soon.
Thank you!